SDG diagram that you would see. You start from a LLM NIM, you provide a bunch of prompts to it, generate a lot of data, everything's raw. You want to ensure that there's a constant feedback loop. Once you generate, you want to take a bunch of LLMs, reward models, agents, making sure that the data that's being generated is of high quality, and then we do a bunch of filtering on top of it so that everything that you're giving to the model for fine-tuning, pre-training, and other use cases is of high quality. You keep following this loop, one, two, and three in different iterations until you get the target dataset size, or you get the tokens that you are interested in to start the next use case. What we offer, right? So for synthetic data generation, we give you a starter pre-built pipelines, which means pipelines that we used ourselves to train our Nemotron 4340B models, state-of-the-art, and we research out there into the product. You can generate question-answer pairs, map prompts, writing prompts, code prompts, dialogues, on and so forth. Everything is like a building block here. We have given you a pipeline. We help allow you to take your own model to generate data with, your own model to judge the data with. So as long as your model is OpenAI API spec, which is the LLM standard, you should be able to use our framework to scale and generate a lot of synthetic data, and then use a bunch of our filtering techniques to get only the high-quality data out of it. We have a couple of questions on synthetic data generation. Does NVIDIA handle the feedback loop? If so, how does it work? Yes. So currently how we've done our synthetic data generation feature set, right? We have a LLM NIM that helps you generate data, and then we have a reward model as a NIM, LLM as a judge functions, and we have a bunch of filters. We have a bunch of filters. So you take all of these building blocks and Lego blocks, and then you orchestrate your pipeline by stitching it together. Again, you could define those steps out of the box using the curator, and then run the SDG pipeline yourself. Thanks Aram.
